## Requirements and rationale.

To complete a Minecraft: Java Edition 1.16.1 RSG run, one must **kill the ender dragon and stand in an end portal frame generated by the dragon's death**, triggerring the end poem presentation. The player begins the game in the overworld with no items and must acheive this result as fast as possible.

The optimal sequence of events is complex (and the reasoning behind those events are even more complex). Broadly speaking, though, there are specific requirements and exclusive means (with few exceptions) to achieve this outcome in a time-efficient manner consistently. The current paradigm with the most effective time splits entail that:
1. The player obtains an array of items in the overworld and then enters the nether dimension.
	* This split is done in 2 minutes or less
2. In the nether dimension, the player performs a route through a bastion and a fortress and then goes back to the overworld for information about the stronghold's location.
	* This split is done in 3-5 minutes for a total time of 5-7 minutes
3. The player returns to the nether dimension, travels to the location of the stronghold, teleports into the stronghold, and locates the End portal.
	* This split is done in 1-2 minutes for a total time of 6-9 minutes
4. The player enters the end and kills the dargeon.
	* This split is done in 1-3 minutes for a total time of 7-12 minutes

The following sequence of events is a full example of an efficient run (these splits were taken from Silverrruns's 8:50):
1. Split 1 (120 seconds; total 120 seconds).
	* Locate and route a [[BT|buried treasure]] (30 seconds).
	* Locate and route [[Wood|wood]] and [[Crafting|crafting]] (30 seconds; total 60 seconds).
	* [[Locate lava|Locate Lava]] and [[Build Nether Portal|build nether portal]] (60 seconds; total 120 seconds).
2. Split 2 (260 seconds; total 380 seconds).
	* [[Locate Bastion|Locate]], navigate to, and [[Bastion Routing|route bastion]] (120 seconds; total 240 seconds).
	* [[Locate Nether Fortress|Locate]], navigate to, and [[Nether Fortress Routing|route nether fortress]] (100 seconds; total 340 seconds).
	* Navigate to [[Optimal Blind Coordinates|optimal blind coordinates]] and [[Build Nether Portal|build nether portal]] (20 seconds; total 360 seconds).
	* [[First Blind Portal Procedures|Locate optimal second nether portal coordinates]] (20 seconds; total 380 seconds).
3. Split 3 (90 seconds; total 470 seconds).
	* Navigate to optimal second nether portal coordinates and [[Build Nether Portal|build nether portal]] (60 seconds; total 440 seconds).
	* [[Pre-emptive Stronghold Scanning|Locate]] and [[Etner Edn|enter]] end portal (30 seconds; total 470 seconds).
4. Split 4 (60 seconds; total 530 seconds).
	* [[End Dimension Procedures|Kill the dargeon]] (60 seconds; total 530 seconds).

This is but one complete sequence of events that accomplished the goal in a remarkable time. Other fast runs follow slightly different sequences. Every stage involves consideration of lots of variables functionally controlled by RNG.
